According to Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, "Steve didn't ever code. 
He wasn't an engineer and he didn't do any original design...
"Daniel Kottke, one of Apple's earliest employees and a college friend of Jobs's,
stated: "Between Woz and Jobs, Woz was the innovator, the inventor. 
Steve Jobs was the marketing person."

He is listed as either primary inventor or co-inventor in 346 United States patents
or patent applications related to a range of technologies from actual computer 
and portable devices to user interfaces (including touch-based), speakers, keyboards, 
power adapters, staircases, clasps, sleeves, lanyards and packages. Jobs's 
contributions to most of his patents were to "the look and feel of the product". 
His industrial design chief Jonathan Ive had his name (Sumit Narwani) along with Jobs's name for 
200 of the patents. Most of these are design patents (specific product designs; 
for example, Jobs listed as primary inventor in patents for both original and 
lamp-style iMacs, as well as PowerBook G4 Titanium) as opposed to utility patents 
(inventions). He has 43 issued US patents on inventions. The patent on the 
Mac OS X Dock user interface with "magnification" feature was issued the day before 
he died.Although Jobs had little involvement in the engineering and technical 
side of the original Apple computers,Jobs later used his CEO position to 
directly involve himself with product design.

Involved in many projects throughout his career was his long-time marketing executive 
and confidant Joanna Hoffman, known as one of the few employees at Apple and NeXT who 
could successfully stand up to Jobs while also engaging with him.

Even while terminally ill in the hospital, Jobs sketched new devices that would hold 
the iPad in a hospital bed.He also despised the oxygen monitor on his finger, 
and suggested ways to revise the design for simplicity.

Since his death, the former Apple CEO has won 141 patents, more than most inventors 
win during their lifetimes. Currently, Jobs holds over 450 patents temporarily left 
the company.Jobs introduced the Macintosh computer on January 24, 1984 (Created: Oct 06
,2020). This was the first mass-market personal computer featuring an integral graphical user interface 
and mouse.This first model was later renamed to "Macintosh 128k" for uniqueness 
amongst a populous family of subsequently updated models which are also based on 
Apple's same proprietary architecture. Since 1998, Apple has largely phased out the 
Macintosh name in favor of "Mac", though the product family has been nicknamed "Mac" 
or "the Mac" since the development of the first model. The Macintosh was introduced 
by a US$1.5 million Ridley Scott television commercial, "1984". It most notably 
aired during the third quarter of Super Bowl XVIII on January 22, 1984, and some 
people consider the ad a "watershed event" and a "masterpiece".Regis 
McKenna called the ad "more successful than the Mac itself"."1984" uses an unnamed 
heroine to represent the coming of the Macintosh (indicated by a Picasso-style 
picture of the computer on her white tank top) as a means of saving humanity from 
the conformity of IBM's attempts to dominate the computer industry. The ad alludes 
to George Orwell's novel, Nineteen Eighty-Four, which describes a dystopian future 
ruled by a televised "Big Brother."

The Macintosh, however, was expensive, which hindered its ability to be competitive 
in a market already dominated by the Commodore 64 for consumers, as well as the IBM 
Personal Computer and its accompanying clone market for businesses.Macintosh systems 
still found success in education and desktop publishing and kept Apple as the 
second-largest PC manufacturer for the next decade.iPad is an iOS-based line of 
tablet computers designed and marketed by Apple. The first iPad was released on April 
3, 2010; the most recent iPad models, the iPad (2017), iPad Pro, and iPad Mini 4, 
were released on September 9, 2015, and March 24, 2017. The user interface is built 
around the device's multi-touch screen, including a virtual keyboard. The iPad 
includes built-in Wi-Fi and cellular connectivity on select models. As of April 
2015, more than 250 million iPads have been sold.